
		Crambin: A Realistic Test Case		

Here is a somewhat realistic test case for exercising EDEN.  The molecule is 
Crambin which was grown as a P21 crystal with cell parameters a = 40.802, 
b = 18.519, c = 22.379 A, angles alpha=90, beta=90.57 and gamma=90 degrees.

Data and pdb files were graciously provided by Drs. Hakon Hope of UC Davis and 
Sean Parkin of Duke University; Dr. Bernhard Rupp of Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory allowed us to use his pdb program to create a starting model from 
a truncated version of the pdb file (see below).

Now for some details:

1. In originals/, there are 3 (compressed) files: cramb2m.fo.gz contains the
data collected at 0.93A and merged; fullcramb.pdb.gz contains the full set 
of pdb coordinates of the solved structure; and start.fc.gz contains a
starting model. This was generated from the full pdb file by removing the 
ethanol, the waters, and also the last 10 out of 46 residues (but leaving the 
sulphur in residue #40).  This starting phase set constituted about 1/2 of all 
the electrons in the unit cell.  

Start by running gunzip on all 3 files.

2.  In apodize/, I have given the complete trail of work done to convert
the original .fo and .fc into appropriate fobs and fcalc files.   The steps for
the data file are:	

The starting model is in X-PLOR format and contains the correct F(000).  
Type "fcalc_script" to expand and apodize the model:

	a) run the model, expanded to P1, through Apodfc; 
	this ensure the correct smearing.  
	Apodfc writes a file, k2.fcalc_wil, to be used for scaling the fobs.

Next, type "fobs_script"; it will:

	a) convert the data to X-PLOR format (using an AWK script, "awkit"); 
	b) insert an F(000) value; 
	d) run data through Apodfo, to ensure the correct smearing; 
	in fact, the data are not smeared. Apodfo does not write a file 
	*_apo.hkl or a "new" ASCII file for plotting.
For the next step YOU MUST PARTICIPATE!
	e) and (within Apodfo) scale the fobs to the fcalc, 
	using your input of k2.fcalc_wil.  

Type  "fobs_script" to do all these steps.

At this point we have a starting data set, cramb.fobs, a starting model, 
start.fcalc and a value for FSCALE which is ~0.8.  


3. In back/ type

	eden back par

The starting model is run through Back and the output -- par_back.bin is
a binary file of electron density in real space, ready for a Solve run.  
On an SGI Indy Irix, the run took about 2 minutes.


4.  In solve/ type

	eden -v solve floor

On our SGI, the run took about 16 minutes to complete.
A run of Forth on the binary result of Solve will give a reciprocal space
solution.  A run of Regrid will transform the Solve binary result to 
standard Xplor map format.  These are available for comparison to other 
Crambin solutions.


